(bell chiming)
Hi let's keep going with our schema.
I pulled up the docs here just to show you,
how do I know all these options
while you look it up in the doc?
So I went to the sanity.io4/docs
and then I went down to reference and schema types.
And in here you'll see all of the different types
that we have.
Obviously so far we've used text, we've used slug,
and you can see there's a whole bunch of different options
here including like stuff for geolocation
and Google Maps inputs, file uploads linking
to other documents, Array of Things.
So if you wanted to have like multiple text inputs
or multiple image uploads you could do an array of,
and we'll be looking at examples of that.
But right now let's work on the topping
because we've got our pizza
and then we're gonna have a second data type
that's called topping
and then our pizza will have many toppings.
That's a pretty common thing you wanna do
and a thing that's called a one to many relationship
where one pizza has many toppings
and then the topping, you could go the other way
and we are gonna do that.
You're gonna say based on this topping
show me pizzas that have that topping on it.
So we'll go to our schema and say topping.js
and what I'll do here is I just copy everything
from pizza.js and paste it in there, sort of a base.
And then I go and delete or maybe just start
to switch things out.
Maybe I'll delete all the fields except for the first one
'cause it's likely we want a name as well.
Okay then we will import the icon.
We'll say FaPepperHot.
And that comes from FA so this is coming from Font Awesome.
And this is why I really liked this react-icons package
because you can pull one icon from one library,
another icon from another library
and what it does is it actually just imports that icon
and not the entire library for you.
Then we'll go down here and we'll say the name is topping,
always do singular lowercase for the name.
And then the title you can, whatever is a human readable.
I'm gonna call it toppings.
The type is a document.
The icon is the icon that we imported right here.
And then the different fields that we have are,
first we have the name of the topping.
What is the name of the topping?
And then let's just stop there and make sure
that it's actually showing up.
So if you go to your dashboard you'll see it's not there
like it's not showing up yet.
And that's because we've not yet merged
that into our schema.
We've created the file but we have not yet done it here.
So we can just duplicate this import pizza from pizza,
duplicate it.
I'm just rename that to topping.
That's a little trick I like to use is doubleClick
the first one.
I hit command D to select the next instance of it
and then just type topping and go here
to where we have it comma topping.
And now I give it a second to refresh something broke.
Okay, let's see here.
Module build failed.
It's telling us that this, right,
let's take a look at. okay look.
So we could have told that if I saw the little squiggle,
unexpected token fields I forgot the closing curly bracket
for that field, there we go.
Here we go, so your toppings shows up and it should allow us
to create a new topping with a name input.
Beautiful, by the way if this seems slow,
it's because I'm on extremely slow internet connection
right now.
I'm about my cottage in the woods.
So it's normally much faster than that.
That's not effective.
The CMS it's effective me being in the middle
of the woods.
Let's go back to the toppings
and get the rest of the fields here.
So I'm going to have another one called a vegetarian.
And that will allow us to mark
Whether that topping is vegetarian or not.
And the type will be, well let's look at the docs here,
a Boolean click onto it.
The type is required options layout,
either a switch or a checkbox.
This lets you control the visual appearance of the input.
By default the input for Boolean fields
will be displayed as a switch
but you can also make it appear as a check box.
Okay, let's try that.
We'll change it to Boolean, balling Boolean.
There we go, and then I think what was the setting?
Layout, it can be a checkbox let's see what that looks like.
It's still a switch.
Layout option can be a switch, default or checkbox.
It doesn't seem like it's working.
Maybe that's a little bug in the library
but that's typically how you would apply.
Oh no, no, no I'm wrong.
It's options.
So options go on like that. right?
And then the layout goes in there.
That's not at the library it's a bug on my brain.
Here we go, it's cool I like it.
We will what do we do?
Yeah I like to check box better.
Let's do the checkbox okay, cool.
Let's go ahead and add a couple toppings.
And I'm gonna show you how to create
a custom prepared view here.
So let's say Pepperoni
and that is not vegetarian.
And let's make it a new, another one onions.
And that is vegetarian.
And another one mushrooms, that is vegetarian.
And then let's do bacon.
And that is not vegetarian.
Okay so, well, we see this layout right here,
but default is just gonna give you the name of the topping.
However, you can control what shows up in here rather
by default, it will just grab the name of the thing.
But if you wanna control what shows up under the toppings
you totally can.
And that's done with the preview part of the dock.
So if we take a look here, preview, let's go to reference.
Maybe it would just do this preview.
Oh, there we go, Sanity Studio.
So if you're looking at all this stuff,
you always wanna look for the Sanity Studio.
One is, that's what we're working in.
And you see the first thing we need to do here is select.
So it say, okay, well you're gonna generate
this preview right here.
What fields do we need to generate the preview?
So we'll go here and say preview
that's not under fields that is here preview.
We wanna select the following fields for it to work.
The name is going to be the name field and vegetarian.
Is going to be the vegetarian field.
So basically we're saying select something,
call it name and reference the name field,
select vegetarian, and reference to vegetarian field.
Then if we go back here, you'll see, that does nothing.
Actually it does do something because we've now said,
don't just grab the name field.
We are going to customize what the preview looks like
and now returning nothing.
So we have to have a prepare function
and that will give us all of the fields that we want.
So fields and we'll just do a little arrow function.
And from that you need to return a title.
This is the title.
You see, it's showing whatever is returned
from this prepare function as an object.
The title is going to be whatever is in here.
And then further more we also have media,
which I'll show you how to do that on the pizza,
because you can have images.
If you have images associated with the content type,
you can show it as a preview there.
So like we can then do, let's make this back ticks
and you can interpolate fields. and then name.
Because of the fields, that's the things you selected
and then the name, say bacon, mushroom, onions, pepperoni.
Now what's kind of cool about that is we can say,
let's just make it fields name
and then we will conditionally show a little leaf
if that topping is vegetarian.
So it will say actually.
Let's do it at the end here.
Say if it is vegetarian question mark
then show the leaf emoji.
Maybe it's seedling.
Yeah, it's called seedling.
Otherwise we will show nothing beside it.
So that's just a nice way to, Oh, that's giving me red.
Why is it vegetarian?
Because it is fields.vegetarian.
There you go, so that's just like a little bit further away
to show what should then show up.
Finally, a lot of people instead of saying fields.name,
fields.vegetarian, what they like to do is to pass
the fields but then destructure the properties
into their own variables.
So instead of fields, we just say name and vegetarian
and then we can take the fields. off of each of those
and simply just use it.
So this is destructuring in JavaScript
where we take the one argument
which is fields and break it down into their properties
into their own variables, called name and vegetarian.
That looks good, in the next video
what we'll do now is to relate these two content types
then allow us to pick what toppings are on a specific pizza.